readme.md, before:

# Paris Real Estate Scraper

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)

## Overview
The paris-RE-Scraper is a Python-based web scraper designed to extract Paris real estate information from various websites and store it in a MySQL database. At this stage in development it's only set up to extract information from bienici.com. 

## Pre-requisites:
You need to have MySQL installed prior to running the code. You can find the installation guide [here.](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/5.7/en/)

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/BenjaminHThomas/Paris-RE-Scraper.git
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. Add your .env file with your MySQL credentials. Example:
```
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=username
DB_PASSWORD=password
```

3. Adjust the settings in settings.py
```
# This variable determines the number of home pages that are scraped for properties. The home page contains all the individual properties.
## There's a 100 page limit on BienIci
property_page_limit = 100

## Headless determines whether or not the browser window is invisible. (useful for testing)
headless = True

## Number of times the script tries to get a new driver when there's issues getting the desired page/element
max_retry = 5

## Change to true to print details for each property
print_results = False

## Demo mode slows the script down for you to inspect. Ensure headless = False if using demo_mode.
demo_mode = False
```

4. Adjust main.py as needed:
```
import scraper
if __name__ == '__main__':
    myinstance = scraper.BieniciScraper()
    myinstance.scrape('buy')
    myinstance.scrape('rent')
``` 

5. Run the scraper:
```bash
python main.py
```

## Usage
Once the scraper is finished you can access the data in MySQL.
<br/>
You can do this in the terminal:
```
mysql -u username -p password
mysql USE paris_re;
mysql SHOW TABLES;
mysql SELECT * FROM bien_ici_buy limit 5;
```
<br/>

Or directly in python:
```python
import pandas as pd, os
import MySQLdb
import pandas.io.sql as psql
from dotenv import load_dotenv
load_dotenv()

# setup the database connection.  
db=MySQLdb.connect(host=os.getenv('DB_HOST'), 
                   user=os.getenv('DB_USER'), 
                   passwd=os.getenv('DB_PASSWORD'), 
                   db='paris_RE')
# create the query
query1 = "select * from bien_ici_buy"
query2 = "select * from bien_ici_rent"
# execute the query and assign it to a pandas dataframe
buy = psql.read_sql(query1, con=db)
rent = psql.read_sql(query2, con=db)
# close the database connection
db.close()
```
### It should look something like this:
| id | price | price_square_mtr | size | rooms | bedrooms | bathrooms | floor | realtor | zip_code | url | property_id | timestamp |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 319000 | 11200 | 27 | 2 | 1 | 1 | None | LAFORET SAINT AMBROISE - Lafor�t PARIS 11 ST AMBROISE | 75011 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-11e/appartement/2pieces/laforet-immo-facile-21946723?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1&depuis-mise-en-avant=oui | /laforet-immo-facile-21946723?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |
| 2 | 542000 | 9537 | 54 | 2 | 1 | None | None |  | 75020 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-20e/appartement/2pieces/gedeon-27853220?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1&depuis-mise-en-avant=oui | /gedeon-27853220?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |
| 3 | 325600 | 13900 | 23 | 1 | None | None | 4 | Abriculteurs - St�phanie ANRIOT | 75007 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-7e/appartement/1piece/apimo-83836625?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1 | /apimo-83836625?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |
| 4 | 392000 | 8621 | 44 | 2 | 1 | None | 4 | Abriculteurs - St�phanie ANRIOT | 75019 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-19e/appartement/2pieces/apimo-83800054?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1 | /apimo-83800054?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |
| 5 | 1100000 | 10000 | 105 | 6 | 4 | 2 | None | DE FERLA IMMOBILIER | 75014 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-14e/appartement/6pieces/ag750523-407039141?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1 | /ag750523-407039141?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Added update functionality
You can now call update_table to update the recorded data in MySQL.

readme.md, after:

# Paris Real Estate Scraper

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)

## Overview
The paris-RE-Scraper is a Python-based web scraper designed to extract Paris real estate information from various websites and store it in a MySQL database. At this stage in development it's only set up to extract information from bienici.com. 

## Pre-requisites:
You need to have MySQL installed prior to running the code. You can find the installation guide [here.](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/5.7/en/)

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/BenjaminHThomas/Paris-RE-Scraper.git
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. Add your .env file with your MySQL credentials. Example:
```
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=username
DB_PASSWORD=password
```

3. Adjust the settings in settings.py
```
# This variable determines the number of home pages that are scraped for properties. The home page contains all the individual properties.
## There's a 100 page limit on BienIci
property_page_limit = 100

## Headless determines whether or not the browser window is invisible. (useful for testing)
headless = True

## Number of times the script tries to get a new driver when there's issues getting the desired page/element
max_retry = 5

## Change to true to print details for each property
print_results = False

## Demo mode slows the script down for you to inspect. Ensure headless = False if using demo_mode.
demo_mode = False
```

4. Adjust main.py as needed:
```
import scraper
if __name__ == '__main__':
    myinstance = scraper.BieniciScraper()
    myinstance.scrape('buy')
    myinstance.scrape('rent')
``` 

5. Run the scraper:
```bash
python main.py
```

6. Update your tables:

To keep your records up-to-date, run the update_table function with either 'buy' or 'rent' to check if any details have changed or the property has been delisted.
```python 
myinstance = scraper.BieniciScraper()
myinstance.update_table('buy')
myinstance.update_table('rent')
```

## Usage
Once the scraper is finished you can access the data in MySQL.
<br/>
You can do this in the terminal:
```
mysql -u username -p password
mysql USE paris_re;
mysql SHOW TABLES;
mysql SELECT * FROM bien_ici_buy limit 5;
```
<br/>

Or directly in python:
```python
import pandas as pd, os
import MySQLdb
import pandas.io.sql as psql
from dotenv import load_dotenv
load_dotenv()

# setup the database connection.  
db=MySQLdb.connect(host=os.getenv('DB_HOST'), 
                   user=os.getenv('DB_USER'), 
                   passwd=os.getenv('DB_PASSWORD'), 
                   db='paris_RE')
# create the query
query1 = "select * from bien_ici_buy"
query2 = "select * from bien_ici_rent"
# execute the query and assign it to a pandas dataframe
buy = psql.read_sql(query1, con=db)
rent = psql.read_sql(query2, con=db)
# close the database connection
db.close()
```
### It should look something like this:
| id | price | price_square_mtr | size | rooms | bedrooms | bathrooms | floor | realtor | zip_code | url | property_id | timestamp |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 319000 | 11200 | 27 | 2 | 1 | 1 | None | LAFORET SAINT AMBROISE - Lafor�t PARIS 11 ST AMBROISE | 75011 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-11e/appartement/2pieces/laforet-immo-facile-21946723?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1&depuis-mise-en-avant=oui | /laforet-immo-facile-21946723?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |
| 2 | 542000 | 9537 | 54 | 2 | 1 | None | None |  | 75020 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-20e/appartement/2pieces/gedeon-27853220?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1&depuis-mise-en-avant=oui | /gedeon-27853220?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |
| 3 | 325600 | 13900 | 23 | 1 | None | None | 4 | Abriculteurs - St�phanie ANRIOT | 75007 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-7e/appartement/1piece/apimo-83836625?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1 | /apimo-83836625?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |
| 4 | 392000 | 8621 | 44 | 2 | 1 | None | 4 | Abriculteurs - St�phanie ANRIOT | 75019 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-19e/appartement/2pieces/apimo-83800054?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1 | /apimo-83800054?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |
| 5 | 1100000 | 10000 | 105 | 6 | 4 | 2 | None | DE FERLA IMMOBILIER | 75014 | https://www.bienici.com/annonce/vente/paris-14e/appartement/6pieces/ag750523-407039141?q=%2Frecherche%2Fachat%2Fparis-75000%3Fpage%3D1 | /ag750523-407039141?q= | 2023-12-30 15:00:17 |


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
